                                                        Prabhakhar Kaliyamurthy
                                                             prabhakhar@acm.org
                                                   http://github.com/prabhakhar
                                                              +1 (408) 832 3143

SUMMARY OF QUALIFICATIONS

  * Extensive programming experience in Java, C/C++, JavaScript
  * Strong leadership and management skills, with experience in
    leading international teams on large projects
  * Seasoned Software Engineer with 10+ years of large systems software
    design and development experience
  * Exceptional problem-solving expertise, analytical skills, and
    enthusiasm for tackling diverse technical challenges
  * Expertise in data structures, algorithms and complexity analysis
  * Extensive knowledge and experience with n-tier architectures,
    Concurrency, Object-Oriented concepts, RESTful Web Services,
    Design patterns, and Refactoring
  * Thorough understanding of HTTP and other web protocols

COMPUTER SKILLS

  Programming: Java, C/C++, JavaScript, Scala, and Python
  Platforms: Linux, OS X, Windows
  Others: Node.js, Kafka, Puppet, Salt, git and UNIX Internals

EDUCATION

  1999-2002 Master of Computer Applications,
            College of Engineering, Guindy - India.

  1996-1999 Bachelor of Science in Physics
            Bharathidasan University, India.

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE

  2008-present: Member of Technical Staff at eBay Inc.
  Platforms Frameworks group.

    Responsible for centralized config system for ebay applications, and 
    writing a distributed systems tracing framework to visualize traffic 
    and latency patterns.

    Made ebay applications more resilient by integrating the internal
    frameworks with Netflix's Hystrix, and advocating teams about aggressive 
    timeouts, fail-fast behavior, fallbacks, sensible defaults etc., 

    Involved in making cloud at ebay, one of the largest private clouds.

    Lead contributor to ql.io  - http://ql.io, an open-source platform to 
    make HTTP consumption super simple and performant at scale.

    Administrator for many npm packages like cluster2, ql.io-engine,
    ql.io-compiler etc., in npmjs.org

    Lead engineer for operationalizing Jersey (JSR 311) within eBay.
    Implemented JAXRS 2.0 features like 'hypermedia constraints',
    client side asynchronous APIs, client auto-redirection, centralized logging,
    monitoring etc.,

    Developed key components in SOA Framework, ebay's in-house asynchronous,
    high performant framework to ease the development of web services within
    all eBay business domains. The framework provides Location Transparency,
    Protocol and Data-Format independence, Versioning, Monitoring, and
    other features required for RPC, like request-response pipelines etc.,

    Project Lead for open sourcing the above mentioned SOA Framework,
    code-named Turmeric. https://www.ebayopensource.org/index.php/Turmeric/Team

    Notable contributions :
      - Support for Protocol buffers message format, reducing the
        soa framework network traffic by 30%
      - Benchmarked the SOA Framework and identified the bottle-necks
      - Service Configuration through API
      - Support business teams to effectively use the framework

    Developed a database-based Messaging framework called 'Business Events Streams'
    a high-performance infrastructure for integration eBay system components
    using asynchronous, persistent, transactional business event streams.

  2007-2008: Technical consultant at American Power Conversion.
  Programmer Analyst at DataMethods

    Designed and implemented a customized scalable solution for APC Warehouse
    systems based on Oracle WMS product.

  2003-2007: Senior Member Technical Staff, ORACLE India Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore.

    I was part of the Directory Services team of Oracle Fusion Middleware.
    Worked on the integration of LDAP server and LDAP tools with Oracle AS11g.
    Also implemented Referential integrity in Oracle LDAP server.
    Fixed many bugs in OID Bulk tools which are part of Oracle LDAP Server.

    Previously part of Shipping and Transportation module of Oracle Applications

  2002-2003: Staff Engineer, INFOSOURCE MIGRATION TECHNOLOGIES, Chennai.

    Joined a 7-person startup implementing a comprehensive migration solution
    across a wide range of databases such as Oracle, SQL Server, IBM DB2, MySQL,
    and PostgreSQL. Technology: C++, Java and SQL.

                                           Website: http://prabhakhar.github.io/